hard drives are laughably fragile I can
break them by doing this this or this
and while solid stage storage is much
more resistant to some of those things
it is also delicate in its own way it's
highly susceptible to data rot where
over time your precious Family Photos
your elementary school projects or your
crypto keys can become corrupted or even
vanish outright well that is where this
comes in the blouse St storage device
costs just $30 is as fast as the ram in
your gaming PC is immune to Magnetic
disruption is resistant to radiation and
it's got unfathomable endurance remember
that SSD in your computer well if you
were to take that and empty it and
refill it once per day it would last
anywhere from about 9 months to 3 years
the blouse do storage device try 2.7
billion years that's over half of the
estimated age of this beautiful Rock we
call Earth but there's a catch while the
raw cost of this drive is just $30
hardly deserving of the crown we
bestowed upon it it has a total capacity
of just 8 kiloby to put that in
perspective if you wanted to store one
single frame of this video you're
watching right now you would need three
of these for a total of $90 and if you
wanted to replace the 2 TB SSD in your
gaming PC it would cost over7
billion excuse me is this some sort of
scam who needs this on a USB how does
this thing even work well I don't know
but I'm going to get some answers right
now where is
she Hey where's our
sponsor Lexar their professional
workflow docs are built to accelerate
your post- production process with 40
gbit per second transfer speeds thanks
to Thunderbolt 4 check out their
workflow series of products using our
link down below listen here kid you call
yourself ferroelectric but there ain't a
lick of iron in you how do you explain
that whoa whoa who you don't have to
answer that the word ferroelectric
indicates the behavior of a material
rather than the presence of iron in it
let me put it in terms of donut eater
like you can understand magnetic
materials have domains that contain
dipoles usually these are randomly
oriented but if you organize the domains
so their dipoles are aligned well you've
got yourself a magnet the same idea
works for Ferro electrics but in place
of an influencing magnetic field it's
influenced by an electric current this
ability to manipulate the state of
domains allows us to store data store
data I don't think so he just said he
was Ram people like that they're too
volatile to store data are you profiling
my client right now I'm just saying if
you Google flash memory versus Ram
pretty much every result's going to tell
you flash memory is nonvolatile meaning
it can store data even when it's
unpowered and random access memory is
volatile that's a false dichotomy and
you know it let's talk about why it's
called Ram originally it was to
differentiate from sequential Access
Memory where you can only read things in
a specific order think like a VHS movie
or a cassette tape you got to fast
forward or rewind to get the stuff you
want that's essentially how all forms of
long-term storage work but with varying
speeds and techniques by contrast Ram
allows any individual bit of information
to be accessed directly the volatility
of RAM is not an inherent characteristic
but a side effect of the modern
Technologies we use to make it okay
sorry can we just drop this bit it's
been going kind of long you could call
it a kilo bit get
out but just because he's gone doesn't
mean we're done talking about Ferro El
electric RAM and what makes it so
special Fe Ram uses microscopic crystals
that contain an atom floating within
their structure by applying an electric
current we can move the atom's position
within the crystal this represents a bit
one or zero the reason it is so durable
is because unlike nand flash which uses
electrons to store bits electrons that
are desperate to find their way back to
equilibrium the crystal contains the
entire atom and for practical purposes
that atom is entirely at rest in either
position so feam is about as nonvolatile
as it gets not only not requiring power
for data retention but also retaining
that data unpowered for hundreds of
years when stored correctly now there
are some additional gas to write a
single bit the entire storage device
needs to be completely overwritten for
instance but luckily as long as your
microcontroller can handle the
throughput it can do that virtually
instantaneously making Fe Ram great for
scenarios where the power could be cut
at any moment think like data logging
for an aircraft or a military vehicle
which is all super interesting but uh
what's the deal with this F Ram USB
stick let me show you how it works it's
got out of the box support for Unix
based systems but if you're on Windows
you're going to need to do a quick tear
down to flash the firmware luckily I've
got all the tools I need in my cargo
pants from LTT store.com
while we're in here by the way why don't
we take a look at the guts it's got a
Raspberry Pi microcontroller a 4 mbte
nor flash chip to store firmware and our
Fe Ram chip once we Flash the firmware
we can access it like this it has an on
device text editor where you can jot
down anything you like as long as it
fits in 8,000 bytes which by default is
yep about 8,000 characters so what would
you use it for well most likely
long-term storage of critical
information like say a really important
phone number that you really don't want
to forget or more likely crypto keys or
passwords uh another option would be to
make a time capsule that could be read
long into the future it only stores text
out of the box but theoretically you
could use a hex Editor to store whatever
kind of data you want on this thing the
only question then is okay we've got
this technology that has the fast reads
and wrs of dram is nonvolatile has
practically Limitless endurance and is
immune to electromagnetic disruption oh
and I didn't even mention it uses a
fraction of the power why aren't we
using it for everything it comes down to
density a single sheet of paper can fit
about 10,000 characters at 12o font size
that represents the density of a
high-capacity SSD for comparison Fe Ram
is about
250,000 times less dense that means that
the size of one of the characters on
this page would cover more than 18 city
blocks in Chicago and my memo would be
about three times the size of New York
City so realistically you're probably
better off making a quarter million
copies and hoping at least one survives
but hold on you might be
thinking flash memory came from
similarly humble beginnings with early
chips also being limited to just
kilobytes of storage how do we know that
feam isn't the future well it's the
crystals the crystals in current
ferroelectric Ram can't hold their
states if they get too small meaning
that they will no longer be able to
store any data at all now there is
active Research into various
non-volatile Ram including new phero
electric materials that could scale
smaller but the question is why would
companies bother investing in this Tech
our large scale computer systems are
currently well served by traditional
forms of RAM and storage even if
longevity is is a problem that
everyone's just kind of ignoring for the
time being or well not everyone there
are multiple long-term storage solutions
that come in much larger capacities like
ultrium tape and mdisk but both of those
require initial investments in Hardware
in order to read and write them and they
operate on the assumption that that
Hardware will still exist when the time
comes to read them now you could argue
that the blouse doall storage device has
the same problem given that the onboard
flash memory and the microcontroller are
both likely to die long before the Fe
Ram will but here's the cool thing you
actually don't need either of those
things to access the data that's stored
on the F Ram should any other components
become obsolete or non-functional you
can interact directly with the F Ram
using an sop8 test clip whether it's the
year 2050 or 1950 which I only bring up
as a possibility because the folks at
mcdine who manufactured the blow storage
device also brought brought it up the
bottom line is this Tech is pretty cool
and if you've made it this far into a
dense nerdy video you are too so to
reward you and also to prove just how
durable this thing is we're going Segway
to our sponsor delete me with the Black
Friday business coming to an end I'm
sure you're all tired of those cold
calls with a special deal just for you
but instead of declining the call every
time have you ever stopped and wondered
how they even got your number in the
first place well that's something our
sponsor delete me can help answer and
even help with see sometimes your
information gets sold online to data
brokers who in turn go and sell it to
yappy MC yappers so they can try and
take all your hard-earned cash but by
feeding delete me the information you
want to keep private they can scour the
web and ask for it to be you guessed it
deleted and it's not just your info you
can keep all your loved ones protected
too thanks to their family plans each
member gets their own data sheet and
managing their profiles is a breeze
thanks to the detailed yet simple to
navigate dashboard so add another tool
to help protect your privacy online go
to our Link in the description and use
code lt20 for 20% off a delete me plan
that fits your needs if you guys enjoyed
this video why not check out the one we
did on cam a turbo nerdy dive into what
could be the future of mainstream memory